another-page.md, before:

---
layout: default
---

## Web Usability

### Mobile Optimization
Mobile devices have become increasingly popular due to its ease of use and accessibility. Unfortunately, mobile screens have different resolutions and screen ratios compared to computer screens. It is always important to ensure that the webpages you make are responsive to mobile screens. This can be easily done by using a pre-built theme when starting your project that already has components made to be mobile compatible. You can also test your website for mobile responsiveness by going to inspect element and clicking the mobile phone icon at the top left corner to change the page view to mobile.

### Take Advantage of Well-Known Website Elements
Well it's important to make your website appealing and unique, it's also important to ensure that users will know how to navigate your website. There are many common website design elements that are widely used in websites. For example: users often expect a navigation bar either at the top of the page or on the side. They also expect the brand's logo to be somewhere noticeable, like somewhere at the top of the screen.

### Lead the Reader's Eyes
Many older websites, especially those made for eCommerce, are overcomplex and colorful to the point where it becomes irritating to look at. It is important to take into consideration the factors that affect the elements on your website. Size is an important factor, if you want to make something stand out, the easiest way is to make it bigger. Colour is also important because the human eye is attracted to bright colours, but do keep in mind that if everything on the screen is bright, then nothing is being focused. This leads us to the next factor, contrast, which not only allows you to emphasize and de-emphasize, but also helps with seperating groups of items. Grouping items can also be done through use of empty space between different sections.

Commit message:

updated page content and theme

another-page.md, after:

---
layout: default
---

# **Web Usability**
**February 9th, 2023**

Designing websites with web usability guidelines in mind is important because users want to be able to use your website without feeling like it's a chore. Below are some of the web usability guidelines that I believe are important.

### Mobile Optimization
Mobile devices have become increasingly popular due to its ease of use and accessibility. Unfortunately, mobile screens have different resolutions and screen ratios compared to computer screens. It is always important to ensure that the web pages you make are responsive to mobile screens. This can be easily done by using a pre-built theme when starting your project that already has components made to be mobile compatible. You can also test your website for mobile responsiveness by going to inspect element and clicking the mobile phone icon at the top left corner to change the page view to mobile.

### Take Advantage of Well-Known Website Elements
Well it's important to make your website appealing and unique, it's also important to ensure that users will know how to navigate your website. There are many common website design elements that are widely used in websites. For example: users often expect a navigation bar either at the top of the page or on the side. They also expect the brand's logo to be somewhere noticeable, like somewhere at the top of the screen.

### Lead the Reader's Eyes
Many older websites, especially those made for eCommerce, are overcomplex and colorful to the point where it becomes irritating to look at. It is important to take into consideration the factors that affect the elements on your website. Size is an important factor, if you want to make something stand out, the easiest way is to make it bigger. Colour is also important because the human eye is attracted to bright colours, but do keep in mind that if everything on the screen is bright, then nothing is being focused. This leads us to the next factor, contrast, which not only allows you to emphasize and de-emphasize, but also helps with seperating groups of items. Grouping items can also be done through use of empty space between different sections.

### Text Design and Legibility
Text is a big part of many websites. Well text can be grouped and highlighted through the same methods described in the previous section, the design of the text itself is also important. The font of your text should stay consistent throughout your web pages unless there is a clear intention to do so otherwise. Using a font that is too stylistic can make it difficult for users to read.

### First Impressions
The first thing users see on your website is the home page. If they do not like what they see, there is no reason for them to stay. In order to make a good first impression, make sure that your home page does not overwhelm the user with too much content, while still providing sufficient information that lets the users know how to navigate and what your website offers.
